## IAM MFA Overview

## IAM - Password Policy
	1. First line of defence: Password setting guidelines for your users like password length, mandatory upper case letters or special characters
	2. Second line of defence: Multi Factor Authentication
		a. Since administrator users can change the password or configuration of the account. MFA can provided additional security
		b. MFA: password you know + security device you own (eg. a physical device for MFA generating token)
	3. eg. MFA device options in AWS:
		a. Virtual MFA device: Google authenticator (phone only), Authy (multi-device)
		b. Universal 2nd factor (U2F) Security Key: eg. Yubikey by Yubiko (3rd party)
		c. Hardware keyfob MFA device (3rd party)
		d. AWS GovCloud

## IAM MFA Hands on

	1. In root account:
		a. IAM -> Account Settings -> Change password Policy
		b. Setup MFA for the root account
			i. In root account, click on your username on top right corner and select Security credentials
			ii. Setup MFA

AWS Access keys, CLI and SDK

## How can users access AWS?
	1. AWS Management Console (Password + MFA)
	2. AWS Command Line Interface (CLI): Protected by access keys
	3. AWS Software Development Kit (SDK): for code: protected by access keys
Access keys are generated by AWS console
Access keys and secret access keys allows to access the AWS via API. don’t share access keys as they are secret to you

## AWS CLI:
	1. A tool that enables you to interact with AWS services using the command-line shell
	2. Gives direct access to the public APIs of AWS services
	3. Can develop scripts to manage resources
	4. Its an open source. An alternative to AWS Management Console

## AWS SDK:
	1. Language specific set of libraries
	2. Enables to access and manage the AWS services programmatically. Its embedded in the code of your applications.
	3. Supports many programming languages

AWS CLI setup in my laptop (Windows):
Installed AWS CLI Version 2

## AWS CLI Hands on
	1. Use IAM user account to create the security credentials. Go to Users -> click on your username -> Select tab Permissions -> Security Credentials -> Click on Create access keys ->Save it
	2. Open command prompt and enter: "aws configure" then enter the details
	3. After configuration is done enter: "aws iam list-users". This command will display all the users in the AWS account.
	4. We can access AWS via management console and via access keys through CLI.

